---
layout: post
title: On Frameworks and Engines
date: 2017-07-15 18:13
author: randallr
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
I've known many people who with great enthusiasm have set out to write an Engine!  Invariably, their ambitions exceed some constraint, e.g. time, skill, manpower, etc.  Enthusiasm fades and the Engine is consigned to languish in obscurity in a git repo somewhere.

I prefer not to overcommit myself.  I've always preferred to  thing of what I build as a framework.  Where my notion of a framework is this.  A collection of code that I wrote to help me understand a concept and help eliminate mistakes.  Most of the code in my current framework, <a href="https://github.com/raegnar/render.git">render</a>, is focused on making tricky OpenGL operations easier, not necessary efficient, just easier.  I can guarantee that any OpenGL trace will reveal a tremendous number of OpenGL function calls, which I am fine with, as long my framework functions can guarantee the correct state.

The most useful parts are probably the Shader abstractions, and the Texture abstractions, but there are other useful bits too, like the Capture mechanisms, i.e. rendering to a Texture or a Buffer (there are Buffer abstractions too).  Basically, anything I screwed up at some point gets wrapped up in code until I understand it and I can use it again elsewhere, without screwing things up.

The ambitious engine writing types also tend to try and abstract away all the APIs, DirectX, OpenGL, Vulkan, DX12, and maybe even Metal.  To me that all seems like a huge headache that will serve only to keep me away from making interesting experiments.  But even I have to concede its  time to move on to a more "modern" API.  I'm just going to pick one and stick to it, and for me, the choice is Metal, the only modern API that exposes an "explicit" API without requiring thousands of lines of boilerplate to get started.  This is a somewhat easy decision for me, since I am already primarily Mac based, and nothing I intend to build is intended for wide distribution.  So, I'll write a new framework using Metal, make a bunch of mistakes and write code until I understand whats going on.  And I shall call the new Metal framework, mender.
