---
layout: post
title: CUDA OpenGL interop addendum
date: 2011-12-22 19:10
author: randallr
comments: true
categories: [CUDA]
---
So it seems that even after the last post I was still making a false assumption. That was I assumed that if I had set <code><a href="http://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/4_0/toolkit/docs/online/group__CUDART__DEVICE_g418c299b069c4803bfb7cab4943da383.html">cudaSetDevice</a></code> to device 0, that I should also set <code>cudaGLSetGLDevice</code> to device 0.

The result of this assumption is that approximately 99% of my kernels execution time was being spent mapping and unmapping textures. Setting <code>cudaGLSetGLDevice</code> to device 1 practically reversed this.
<h2>Watch out for "reverse enumeration"</h2>
Apparently, device enumeration works differently for OpenGL and CUDA. In OpenGL the primary device is GPU 0, and the rest are assigned according to the graphics driver. In CUDA, devices are ranked by their capabilities. If you happen to have 2 GPUs of equal capabilities (as in the case of my dual gtx480s), you can end up with a "reverse enumeration" of OpenGL's enumeration.
<h2>What to do?</h2>
There are a couple of solutions to this, and you'll have to decide which one is "best" for your particular circumstances.  First of all, if you only have one GPU (and one machine) this will probably never be an issue. Unfortunately, if you have only 1 GPU you won't be able to do any CUDA debugging with the excellent <a href="http://developer.nvidia.com/nvidia-parallel-nsight">Nsight debugger</a>.  If you have 2 machines with 1 GPU apiece, again, this won't be an issue, and you can setup debugging.  However, if you're like me with 1 machine with 2 GPU's you're going to have to put some thought into both getting maximum performance and retaining the ability to debug your CUDA code.  If you have multiple machines with multiple GPUs, you are a lucky bastard, tell your boss to hire me.
<h2>Timings</h2>
Before proceeding I thought it would be informative to provide timings for my particular test case.  I have 6 3D volumetric floating point 4 channel textures.

So, of course, the "correct" solution is to set the OpenGL device programmatically with the new CUDA 4.1 api function <code>cudaGLGetDevices</code>, since the new reference manual isn't online yet, I've listed the parameters and description here, because it seems like kind of a weird function.
<div>

<strong>Description:</strong>
<blockquote><strong></strong>Returns in <code>*pCudaDeviceCount</code> the number of CUDA-compatible devices corresponding to the current OpenGL context. Also returns in<code>*pCudaDevices</code> at most <code>cudaDeviceCount</code> of the CUDA-compatible devices corresponding to the current OpenGL context. If any of the GPUs being used by the current OpenGL context are not CUDA capable then the call will return <a href="/Program%20Files/NVIDIA%20GPU%20Computing%20Toolkit/CUDA/v4.1/doc/html/group__CUDART__TYPES_g3f51e3575c2178246db0a94a430e0038.html#gg3f51e3575c2178246db0a94a430e0038e942e4cbbd2bef6e92e293253f055613">cudaErrorNoDevice</a>.</blockquote>
<strong>Parameters:</strong>
<table style="border-collapse:collapse;" border="0" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="0">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td valign="top"><em>pCudaDeviceCount</em></td>
<td>Returned number of CUDA devices corresponding to the current OpenGL context</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top"><em>pCudaDevices</em></td>
<td>Returned CUDA devices corresponding to the current OpenGL context</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top"><em>cudaDeviceCount</em></td>
<td>The size of the output device array <code>pCudaDevices</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top"><em>deviceList</em></td>
<td>The set of devices to return. This set may be <code>cudaGLDeviceListAll</code> for all devices, <code>cudaGLDeviceListCurrentFrame</code> for the devices used to render the current frame (in SLI), or <code>cudaGLDeviceListNextFrame</code> for the devices used to render the next frame (in SLI).</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
[sourcecode language="cpp"]

unsigned int deviceCount;
int  cudaDeviceCount = 2;
int *cudaDevices = new int[cudaDeviceCount];

cutilSafeCall(cudaGLGetDevices(&amp;deviceCount, cudaDevices, cudaDeviceCount, cudaGLDeviceListAll));
[/sourcecode]

</div>
