---
layout: post
title: OpenGL: getting ARB_debug_output working
date: 2012-04-12 11:13
author: randallr
comments: true
categories: [OpenGL]
---
OpenGL can be a pain in the ass, this isn't helped by the fact that there aren't a lot of options for debugging when something goes wrong, which is all the time.

Fortunately, there's been some improvement in the form of the ARB_debug_output extension. Unfortunately, getting this extension to work is also a bit of a pain the ass, but it can be done and its totally worth it.

The trouble comes from the fact that in order to enable ARB_debug_output you must change the way you initialize the rendering context, which is something most people just whatever windowing toolkit they're using take care of. So, unless you create the rendering context yourself, there's no guarantee you can even enable this extension.

GLEW

Like many, I use GLEW to enable OpenGL extensions, so when I was researching this I found this post about a "chicken and egg" problem
<blockquote>To use ARB_debug_output you have to use the WGL_create_context_profile's wglCreateContextAttribsARB() to set WGL_CONTEXT_DEBUG_BIT_ARB to get a GL context with the ARB_debug_output extension.

To get WGL_create_context_profile you have to create a dummy window and context, so you can call glewInit() to initialize all the WGL function pointers. Unfortunately as ARB_debug_output does not appear in the extensions string until you use wglCreateContextAttribsARB() to set WGL_CONTEXT_DEBUG_BIT_ARB, the ARB_debug_output's function pointers are not initialized.

Once you call wglCreateContextAttribsARB() to set WGL_CONTEXT_DEBUG_BIT_ARB and create a debug context, you need to reinitialize GLEW's pointers so it can now find ARB_debug_output's function pointers, then you can use ARB_debug_output.

But calling glewInit() a second time will not initialize those pointers as it has already been called before and refuses to initialize twice.</blockquote>
This post is actually pretty old and there have been several updates to GLEW since then, but I haven't been able to figure out it if this issue has been addressed.

So, we just won't rely on GLEW to enable this particular extension.
<h2>Create your own Context</h2>
&nbsp;
<h2>GLUT</h2>
[sourcecode language="cpp"]
glutInitWindowSize(Size.x, Size.y);
glutInitWindowPosition(64, 64);
glutInit(&amp;argc, argv);
glutInitDisplayMode(GLUT_RGBA | GLUT_DOUBLE | GLUT_DEPTH);// | GLUT_MULTISAMPLE);

int WindowHandle = glutCreateWindow(argv[0]);

glewInit();

glutDestroyWindow(WindowHandle);

glutInitContextVersion(Major, Minor);

glutInitContextProfile(WGL_CONTEXT_CORE_PROFILE_BIT_ARB); // GLUT_COMPATIBILITY_PROFILE GLUT_CORE_PROFILE
glutInitContextFlags(GLUT_FORWARD_COMPATIBLE | GLUT_DEBUG);

glutCreateWindow(argv[0]);
[/sourcecode]
