---
layout: post
title: A Metal Framework
date: 2017-08-18 09:01
author: randallr
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
I've actually been programming in Metal lately, which is great, because there is a lot of things to like about Metal as an API. But even as the least painful modern API, I still find graphics code a bit tedious to write. It's generally about 10 lines to create a texture or a buffer, 10 to create a shader and attach it to a pipeline, 30 or more to create a correct Render Target. It all gets very tedious and is terribly error prone.
<h3>Not an Engine</h3>
I'm not interested in creating an engine, that is an engineering task that is best not trivialized, and I prefer not to overcommit myself.  I just want something to make the task of prototyping crazy ideas a bit easier.  My last framework, render, evolved out of the same goal, and gradually made it easier and easier for me to churn out prototypes as I encapsulated OpenGL concepts into its frame.
<h3>Ridiculous Requirements</h3>
Like the title says, this is a Metal framework, so no cross-platform concerns, which allows me to abandon the hubris that OpenGL actually worked across platforms without issue.  I'll likely do most of my development on a Mac with iOS devices as the primary target.

But... I don't want to use Xcode, and I don't want to program in Objective-C or Swift, these things combined increase the barrier to entry substantially, but I've done just enough work to convince myself that these problems are all surmountable.
<ul>
	<li>I will use <a href="https://github.com/naleksiev/mtlpp">mtlpp</a> as a binding to the Metal API.</li>
	<li>I will use <a href="https://www.jetbrains.com/clion/specials/clion/clion.html?gclid=EAIaIQobChMIgZGxjpPh1QIVCJV-Ch0lbAs8EAAYASAAEgLsyvD_BwE&amp;gclsrc=aw.ds.ds&amp;dclid=CPme5o-T4dUCFRV7fgodieoLcg">CLion</a> as my primary development IDE
<ul>
	<li>As a consequence my build system will be <a href="https://cmake.org">CMake</a> Based</li>
</ul>
</li>
	<li>I will have a minimal class wrapping an MTKView responsible for all window management and event handling</li>
</ul>
